# Project 3

Web Programming with Python and JavaScript


After building a basic design for my website I made sure I used the right strategy to support all the menu items of Pinnochio's.
You will see after signing-up and logging in that my menu contains all the available items and they are all dynamic and ready to be added to cart and ordered subsequently. When a user  hits my website for the first time he will have to sign up for it. For this sign-up process I used django forms as you Will see. The User is asked to give all his personal details as asked in the project's requirements. All theses details I made as "required" and so the user gets an alert if he doesn't enter one of them. These alerts are django inside code. Throughout the project and also here on the sign-up function I used django documentation to understand how it works. After signing-up, the user will be able to login to the project's home page(index). I changed and improved the restaurant's design so that it looks more modern. Once a user signed up he can logout as required.
Once a user goes to the menu he has title of all the food types and he can pick any of them and press the button near their price and add them to cart. All these items are coming from the database that I filled using django Admin. Once he clicks on a button he will be directed to the cart where he sees his total price so far. I redirected the user directly for a better user experience in my opinion so that he knows what he ordered already. If he want to order anything else he click on "back to menu button". As per the models, I tested a lot of options and ended up with divided the menu to food categories and then filtered them by types of products. I thought this is the best way to do it.
As per the pizza design i chose radio button for the pizzas and checkbox for the toppings so that a user doesn't order two pizzas at once. As for the subs, i presented them as a normal product and the extras as an independent product because there aren't a lot of extras so it had to be different than the way I presented my pizzas. All the other product types were simpler to present.
In terms of code, I chose to create and extra app for the cart and put all the models and everything related to it in terms of models, urls and views there so that there is more order and its more understandable. I created a kind of helpers file for the cart written in python and the code in it was inspired from something I found in "overflow". I provided the link in the code.
Once a user checks-out he is directed to a page where he is told his order is places. If you go after that to django admin I made sure when you go to the orders model and click on the order you get all its necessary details. I had to do a small customization in django admin to make it happen which I took also from django documentation. All the requirements of the project are fullfilled and tested in google chrome and they work. I also invested some time to have a nice, modern and friendly design for the website. I inspired some of it from an example I saw in w3shcool webiste. I used a little part of JavaScript code for the tabbed menu that I inspired from them too. My project's personal touch are the add/remove buttons I added in the shopping cart were the user can add or remove items of the same type he ordered already. I added only one package- django-mathfilters which i added to the requirements file. I used it to calculate(inside the template) the total of each line in the cart.
I submit this project one day late with the permission of Brian.
If you have any further question please do ask.

Best Regards,

Hidai
